---
layout: publication
title: "Semantic Code Repair using Neuro-Symbolic Transformation Networks"
authors: Jacob Devlin, Jonathan Uesato, Rishabh Singh, Pushmeet Kohli
conference:
year: 2017
additional_links:
   - {name: "ArXiV", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/1710.11054"}
tags: ["repair"]
---
We study the problem of semantic code repair, which can be broadly defined as automatically fixing
non-syntactic bugs in source code. The majority of past work in semantic code repair assumed access
to unit tests against which candidate repairs could be validated. In contrast, the goal here is to
develop a strong statistical model to accurately predict both bug locations and exact fixes without
access to information about the intended correct behavior of the program. Achieving such a goal
requires a robust contextual repair model, which we train on a large corpus of real-world source
code that has been augmented with synthetically injected bugs. Our framework adopts a two-stage
approach where first a large set of repair candidates are generated by rule-based processors, and
then these candidates are scored by a statistical model using a novel neural network architecture
which we refer to as Share, Specialize, and Compete. Specifically, the architecture (1) generates
a shared encoding of the source code using an RNN over the abstract syntax tree, 
(2) scores each candidate repair using specialized network modules, and (3) then normalizes these
scores together so they can compete against one another in comparable probability space. We evaluate
our model on a real-world test set gathered from GitHub containing four common categories of bugs.
Our model is able to predict the exact correct repair 41% of the time with a single guess, compared
to 13% accuracy for an attentional sequence-to-sequence model. 
